Lympstone Academty Brass began its life as The Training Band and dates back to the 1980s when the Lympstone Silver Band, now known as the Lympstone Brass Band, had depleted to about 12 players. Due to lack of young players in the band Wendy Howell (née Lee) started a training band with nine players from the village. The Training Band was brought in and out over the next two decades first by Rodney Dingle and then Colin Dance but, as often happens, the numbers fluctuated and started to drop leading each time to dissassembly.


In 2001, the main band’s euphonium player, Sam Pope tried once again. Sam lovingly referred to the band as her 'Baby Band'. She was left with eight children and one adult on bass, Roger Johnson, who also lived in the village. At this point the band was rehearsing in the youth club hut as repairs were being done to the Methodist Hall. Sam encouraged local residents, Roger Riggs and Richard Bound to join the band, along with their families.


Sam and the Training Band continued to be successful, growing in numbers and moving several players on to join the main band. Sam left in 2006 to move closer to her family, with the Training Band having grown to around 20 members. Colin Dance, Tim Gittins and Bryony Snell re-started the process. They began to introduce more modern music into the bands library as it appealed more to the children.

​
In 2012, Roger Riggs was voted in as conductor of the Training Band as Colin and Tim stood down for personal reasons. At this time the Training band was averaging about 12-15 players each week. Roger introduced a new feel for the band by encouraging parents to come along and play with their sons and daughters, even if they had little musical experience. He regularly asked what they wished to play and endeavoured to find the music they requested. This greatly assisted in maintaining interest and enthusiasm week after week.

​The band continued to flourish for multiple years, at its peak consisting of 44 players. In 2019, the Training Band underwent a rebrand, being renamed to Lympstone Academy Brass and becoming a more indipendent entity seperate from the Lympstone Brass Band (formerly the SWComms Band),  though it is still considered the 'Main Band' of Lympstone.

Today, Lympstone Academy Brass continues to steadily hold its numbers and recruit new members. They also continue to experiment and expand their library of fantastic music which already consists of pieces both modern and classic. They are available to hire for local events and are always looking for new recruits, no matter the age or ability.

